I'll use Plunker for that,
so head over to plnkr.co, plnkr.co and then click on launch the editor.
Now if you want to use your local set up, your local editor like Atom, Sublime, WebStorm, whatever,
that's totally fine, it'll work the same,
I'm just using it here
to have a great way of having a workspace,
everyone is able to start right away
but of course this will work exactly the same on your local machine.
You should see an editor which looks like that
and well yes, that is what we'll be working with. We can create new files here on the left and we will do
so throughout this project,
here we can work in a file and here on the right,
if we click on this eye, on live preview, we can see our running project.
If we do need to refresh it for some reason and it should autorefresh
but if we do need to refresh it, we can click this refresh
icon here, this green one. Now with that, we should be able to start. The first thing I'll do is I'll change
the styling.
You see we already import the stylesheet here,
so all I need to do is change it and I prepared some styles for that.
Now of course you can find all the styles attached to this lecture, so you don't have to pause and write
all of that but basically, that's just some styling I'll use throughout this project to give it a nice look.
However since this is not really about styling or CSS, I'm just pasting this in here
and yes as I said, you'll find it attached.
Next I'll work on the index.html file
and I also prepared some HTML code which you will find attached
and all this code does is it will create this interface you see on the right but I'll go through it
step-by-step.
However, I haven't really mentioned what we are going to build and the app kind of shows it, we're building
a really simple weather app where we can search for a city name,
click on the show weather and then hopefully, we see some information about the weather in that city
.
So not too fancy but really nice and showcasing a lot of features we learned throughout this course.
Therefore in the HTML code, I have my header and then I have this main section where I have my search area
with the label, the input and the button
and then I have this part here which we're not able to see right now because it's hidden by default
.
It's kind of a loading text
and then the weather information with the city name, the weather description and the temperature
and of course we will conditionally show and fill this with data with Javascript, so really looking
forward to that.
So right now if you click show weather, of course nothing happens because no scripting is going on.
The first thing I'll do is, I'll remove the script tag here at the top and instead, add one right here
at the bottom before exiting the body part.
So I'll write script here and you can just type it and then hit tab to automatically create an
opening and closing tag
and here I will imported a script named app.js and
I'll create that soon. So I'll go to my script.js and delete this file because I will create a new
one which I'll name app.js here like that.
Now in this app.js file, I want to hook up this button to fire an event,t so that we can actually
see the weather or we can actually load the weather for a certain city and of course, I also want to do
all the other logic, so reaching out to some service to fetch the weather and to then display it here
on the web page.
So with that, these are the basic preparations and in the next part, I'll actually dive into writing
that code.